What are modules.
Well first let's ask ourselves what our programs in general.
There's simply a way for us to modify data modify variables because so much of our code is just about
modifying data and how we organize these variables within our code the way we structure this data should
be the most important part of our program because it's going to allow us to have more maintainable code
now as humans in our head.
If we just had a few variables to think about that's easy right.
We don't really need multiple files in JavaScript we just need one file.
And because of java scripts functional scope we don't even have to think about all the functions in
our program because of how scope works in JavaScript and functions can't have access to variables that
are defined in other functions.
Well we can just in our head keep the variables that we're currently using.
For example if I had a sign in function
well and I'm writing this function I don't have to worry necessarily about me creating a let's say text
field variable and I can set it to whatever I want.
This text field because of function scope and the way works in javascript isn't going to be modified
by anybody outside of it so that if I have another function let's say function is human because when
people sign in and we want to make sure that they are human I can once again start working on this function
and not really care about what this function is doing with its piece of data because well I don't really
have access to text field I have access to my own variables and this is great right.
This is completely manageable.
It means that we're working on one function at a time.
And think about that one function only but it does have a downside right because without talking to
other functions without talking to other pieces of data outside of ourself Well we can really write
programs do we.
We need a way to share data between these different functions.
So how do we do this.
Well if we had a user variable that was an object we can simply put it on the scope outside of let's
say a function so that both functions have access to it so that now when I call these functions I can
perhaps pass in the user parameter so that we have access to this shared piece of data and that's how
we've done things.
We just move the piece of data that we need that we need to share up the scope chain to a parent that
can share this piece of data with its children for example on the global scope.
Now what's the problem with this code.
When we first start writing bigger and bigger programs and we have this piece of code that we keep extending
keep extended keep adding data and variables to our global scope.
Well we know that we have the idea of tight coupling which simply means that everything is connected
really really tightly so that if I modify the user object for example who knows what effect might have
in other parts of the file other functions maybe some function really needed the user to have the name
property but in another function I changed the name for a property to perhaps nickname that's tight
coupling.
It means a lot of things having to depend on one another.
This also creates hard to debug code because so many things can happen that can modify data.
And as we've talked before polluting the global namespace causes possible memory leaks where we have
limited amount of memory on our window object for example.
And while we're just adding more and more data to it.
OK.
So let's solve this problem.
We have a massive file with a thousand lines of javascript but we're polluting the global namespace
there's too many global variables too many things depending on one another.
They're tightly coupled.
How can we fix it.
And you might be asking yourself well that's no problem.
I can just have a nice simple file and I'll include all my script files.
I'll just divide up the code and perhaps add different script files script to script 3 and then I don't
have to worry about anything right well not really because the way we've had it in the past is that
simply adding script files to let's say an HMO file the browser doesn't really care that you've put
code in separate files when it's evaluating the javascript.
It just combines all these files together so you might as well just have put everything into one file
because any variable that you declare in that script on the global scope of that script is going to
be a global variable in the entire web page.
And on top of that the dependencies between these different parts of your code are what we call implicit
we're not defining it is just the kind of figure out on their own what's depending on what what's modifying
the data.
Any function can grab anything on the global scope so you don't know which functions depend on which
scripts let's do a little example.
I have a fun little function here called fight and fight.
Well accepts two parameters and it makes them fight two characters.
That makes them fight and in our case we have Harry and Voldemort.
Now all I'm doing here is I'm doing math.
Random was generates a number from 0 to 1 and then I multiply that by the character length.
So in that case I'm multiplying math random by 1 2 3 4 5 6 and then doing math at floor so that we get
a whole number an integer.
And I'm doing the same here.
If I console log this and do attack 1
I'm just randomly generating a number for Harry at least between 0
now yes.
This function is not very good because if you have a longer name while you have a higher chance of actually
winning because we compare which is higher and then one wins over the other.
In this case he who must not be named wins and most of the time while Voldemort wins but every once
in a while Harry prevails as well.
Now this silly little function if I copy and paste this into let's say my script file just like this
and we don't need to call this for now if I save this and we see that we have the script file in our
Asian male page.
Let's open our index that HMO file and then now we should be able to have access to fight which is a
function so that if I do fight
Harry and Baltimore.
There you go.
Baltimore wins again and that's because well everything that we define in this file is going to be part
of the global scope unless we define it inside of a function and the problem arises when we have a another
script and this script simply says variable fight equals haha.
I have to make sure that I close the string.
Let's refresh again and I do.
Fight Oh I've just overridden my fight function that I worked really really hard to build.
OK.
Well can't I just move this up here so that this script gets read after I refresh and do fight.
Yep I have the function there but this is not good right.
This is one of the major problems without modules because these variables are on global scope every
part of the code that's inside of that file can change a variable so that you start to have really hard
code to debug and as you get bigger and bigger with your javascript it becomes impossible to maintain
in any serious language has a way to handle modules because you cannot build large applications without
module.
So how do we solve this.
Well back in the day we used to just have one page of javascript like I've showed you.
And that was easy enough because web pages in the 90s especially were very simple javascript.
Nothing too crazy maybe a form here and there but things started getting bigger and bigger.
We have really complex web applications now so we can no longer keep everything in our head.
We can no longer just have one JavaScript file and know how each piece of data is being touched by a
function.
Most of the time we're working in teams with tens hundreds thousands of developers.
So how do we do this in javascript.
Now JavaScript has a thing called yes module that is a module system that is native to JavaScript now.
But this happened quite recently.
What do we do before.
Before I show you how things work now I want to show you how we solve this problem of modules so that
we have a bit of a historical context because some code bases still use these older methods.
So let's get started with a first solution to this problem I'll see in the next one by.